---
template: post
title: Buccaneers Coaching Staff… Licht… Y’all are Failing Like This With the GOAT?
slug: fixing-buccaneers-2022-bradys-last-season-hope-not-to-be-i-told-you-so
socialImage: /media/tom-brady-throws-his-tablet-091922-2000-e71960dcb3994bbe95455aba62b228e9.jpeg
draft: false
date: 2022-04-17T22:40:32.169Z
description: How the coaching staff, and front office need to step up for Brady
category: buccaneers
tags:
  - Buccaneers
  - Tom Brady
  - 2002 NFL Season
video: https://www.youtube.com/embed/BvLBY6YJ4oQ?autoplay=1
---
It’s amazing the waves of homerism that Brady seemingly Godzilla’ed out of the swimming pool Gulf of Mexico 2 and 1/2 years ago, and how quickly  chicken littles and just ignores the going on quarter century Brady is playing football in, what that history has been, and something long time, real Bucs fans will know is, we’ve seen this before, seen Dungy and Sean King take us to the playoffs at least twice, and at least always make it interesting at the end, always with more disastrous seeming starts, and the we saw Dungy fail to take make it to the tournament with much better starts. Same on both accounts for Gruden with Jeff Garcia! Squeeked in the playoffs to get crushed and outclassed by the Giants, but he did it coming back from a bad early record iirc. Fans want to write off Brady… 

Fans want to call him a sour old man for acting the way he has always acted, as if making it is his job to hold people accountable, showing his teammates that he will put more work in, be responsible to remain focused and in the zone, take as many hits as anyone and be forced to when lack of execution combined with lack of good game planning, scheme adaption to better fit players, and a GM with actual stones and awareness that this is the year, that it’s kind of part of the deal with being that blessed that Brady picked here to come, and you to help lead to a ring, to adapt to an offensive system that calls on him to sit in the pocket and look downfield to the point it starts to look like Warren Moon QBing the Run and Shoot, in both cases, great talent wasted for stagnantly refusing to be able to attack the whole field. 

If Licht would have found a way to trade in front of the fans for Von Miller, or maybe at least strengthened his Tackle depth in response, and even looking at starters, Smith is just clearly not the LT that you want blocking for Brady in this type of hold the ball, push the ball downfield, system. Can’t have the greatest show on turf without someone to pass block the blind side in any way that a guy like Orlando Pace could have any pride in seeing (just guessing, but Smith’s feet have always been too heavy for a Bruce Arians offense imo). Wirfs is still nasty even through a software slump, but giving Smith an always unchallenged roster spot, for what has never been blue chip play, is the perfect example of the type of nepotism that is plaguing this organization, and distracting them from just….

This coaching staff is the most predictable, boring, seems more about chain of command, paying dues, and unhelpful loyalty when what would most help everyone would be any sort of adaption, innovation, change of pace, metric applied to positive results, even some trick plays, 4th down attempts, anything that get’s over the inability to show stones that has all just waiting for Tom Brady to fire you guys and just do it all it himself. Putting Brady in charge right now, and for as long as he wants to be to run their operations, would be the smartest thing the Glazers could do, but what does Brady know about futbol, shoes, or the sabbath? Glazers seem to only end up ever lucking into egotistic folly leftovers or swinging for Ted Lasso’s and never finding any diamonds in the rough to be lasting solutions as head coach. They likely really don’t know enough American football to stay on the cutting edge and know to watch and talk to… with no talk of futbol, shoes, for the sabbath.. I joke, I joke. Not to blame them, and Licht has proven me wrong as much as I’ve ever criticized him too, but it all just seems so sloppy… from front office failing to fill depth issues so many saw coming last year, in the secondary, O-Line, letting Bruce Arians’ “football man” impatience throw away whatever good Antonio Brown might have done for us on the field. Bruce was an old school coach and player, so you’d think he’d know enough about CTE and what it can do to try to be a little more patient for Brown’s clearly emotionally challenged from being bam bam club slammed into the turf by Vontaze Burfict, lid. 

Byron Leftwich is somehow making this offense look like he’s the one back there playing QB, tall and immobile in the pocket, with too long a windup to even safely target underneath routes, so instead forced to sit and take hits to wind up and launch it downfield. Brady should have a singles bar opened in his name in every town around the bay out of appreciation for just how much he adapted and evolved his game for us to be as successful as we have been since he got here. People thought he’d lost the deep ball when he got here, and that it had never been his strength, but really now it seems like it was Bellichik’s offensive approach just being to target the underneath stuff a lot more with a lot more variety to be able to catch teams off guard when passing downfield. I like Lefty, so I hate to stay this, but I personally know many people would be a much play caller than he seems to be, that would be much more creative, appreciative, and understanding of how to empower Brady and the offense as a whole with variety, and new play concepts directed and deliver in rytham, to not waste this offensive talent’s ability to perform with this repetitive, lumbering, predictable, horrid offensive choreography we’ve seen. Personally, I want the Bucs to move quick now before it’s too late and relieve the “football guys” of the weight to lead all the x & o’s  decisions, and how to win more matchups with talent they have and they’re just failing. If that means let them keep their jobs to keep stability, first that should be up to Brady imo…, and second who are we hiding down our coaching staff who could even have those play generalship, or on offense even just being a good, unbiased master of the cart should be all your having to do to give Brady options at all levels of the field where to get the ball to, without always such extreme level difficulties of throw and catches, but turning the threat of that ability to all the easy ones Byron Leftwich just seems locked in on Happy Gilmoring out of the gameplan to make it a don’t hurt anyone’s feelings, but worse slowly make everyone in the world except the Panther’s fans and Brady Haters disdain his offensive coaching efforts.

Stop rotating Fournette and White like they are punching a time clock! First, and maybe worst, it’s a clear flag that no special plays are really being dialed up for either of these guys, and of the bla of this offense as a whole. Second you’re not focusing on, or seemingly even aware of enough to take much account at all of the, the strengths and weaknesses of each guy, Fournette, White, and same could be said for pretty much the whole offensive depth chart imo. I owe Fournette an apology. He has improved and has become an even more well rounded player this year than I imagined him possible, and I feel silly for letting reports of his big boy weight, his until mid last year his issues still fighting to catch the ball on easy ones, and just my excitement and hope for White and what he might do in this offense. Fournette should have been on the field at the end of the game Thursday, not White, especially going for 2 from the 2. White needs opportunities to get the ball in space to grow his confidence and a big play or 2 from White would do wonders to spark this offense and this team imo. White should be trusted on tosses to press the edge with speed, especially with the WR’s we have to block outside. I’m not going to pretend to have any idea how Brady might feel about White as a route runner and a blocker, or pretty much anyone on this offense not named Evans, Godwin, or Wirfs (although we’re not getting A games from any of them yet either). If Brady has a RB who can run the option route, he broke the Atlanta Falcons heart in the SuperBowl running those option route with James White and Julian Edleman over and over again the second half. If White may not be ready to do it in time, go trade for someone else who may be, sign Edleman off the street, trade for a veteran TE who you can trust more already in a big game, trade for Antonio Gibson even if he bloats your backfield and stresses your cap. Trade for a more dependable vertical threat to stretch the other side of the field when Jones knee inevitably swells up again and to trust to catch the easy ones until Evan’s can relax, develop more comfort, and finally get out of his own head enough to stop losing focus to bring in. Get Brandon Cooks. Brady and he have played in big games. Even without Jones, it’d more dependable and nasty with Cooks, and with Jones and better protection and less predictability, our wideouts at least would be uncovorable (if that were ever enough. It is funny to contrast us with Belichik’s often complete seeming devaluing of the position though). 

My new favorite player on the Bucs and another potentially talented game changer for us worth more trust is Ko Kieft. He doesn’t even really have highlights on YouTube, because many whole games at Minnesota were  highlight reels of him blocking in space like he’s Moose Johnson blocking for Emmit Smith. Brady has thrown him some nice seem passes, and he’s on the field, so they obviously trust his blocking. Their wasting his talents at it not getting him more in space doing it, and that’s the type of blocking that would start to set White loose on long runs with some frequency if either of them were built into anything that seemed more like a real game plan. Brady started his career being the best at throwing screens, with Belichik and now Raider’s coach, being the best at designing and dialing that up. Both of these backs can do it. This line, should be athletic enough to do it, to run more zone runs, to get hats on hats in space, but if this coaching staff can’t get of the way or get of out their own way with a quickness, these guys are going to be doing it for other coaches without Brady next year and they’ll just end up more coaches we Bucs fans thought and gave a chance to consider promising only to woe there names evermore for tanking one of our rare chances. 

Learners with a plan type coaches would be getting a lot more out of this talent. Bill Parcels took a Miami Dolphins team with about equal talent to this years Panthers of this year, and Tony Sparano by dropping the Wildcat offense on a completely unprepared NFL. (poor Ricky Williams that we best know him for only that, Ditka being an idiot, and being blackballed for weed while the obvious roid heads got applauded...)

Speaking of the Dolphins, When Brady “retired” and then was looking to make his way to quarterback the Miami Dolphins this year with an ownership stake offered online, most Bucs fans didn’t want to hear the report that Brady was fed up with staff here. Now I think we all are. For those of you still also want to pile on Brady as being old and washed up, well he’s shown time after time who gets the last laugh at that trash talk. You think what you want, I’ll bet on him again, and this article is my effort to and also to help myself. You can follow this tutorial to see how I launched this site and steps you can follow to launch a fast site fast, host it free, structure to evolve and grown to connect at all levels, learn in plain English about the art, industry, and science of full stack software development if you feel to. 

I like Todd Bowles, but he is in over his head too. I was not a fan of him being rewarded for losing the playoff game at the end last year with his all out blitz with the game and season on the line ignoring all metrics from last year that Matt Stafford was the best QB against the blitz, knowing that no one can be counted on to cover the top shelf route running that Cooper Kupp brings, with his seeming mind meld with Sean McVeigh at this point,  especially not with that mesh coverage dumping Kupp running full speed at Winfield past everyone else on the field. That call was absurd, and seemingly as much as Leftwich is on offense, Bowles defensive play calling has been predictable, reactive, boring, and not taken advantage of the talent available to him. If they could find a veteran pass rusher capable to bring quick pressure with any consistency to pair off, damn just realized Shack Barrett is out, so really they either need 2 edge rushers capable of winning with quick pressure with any consistency or one stud beast one. None are easy to find or cheap, but if they are just going to sit and put it all on Joe Tryon, Gholston, and Vea to mush rush enough quick pressure ever, or Akeem Hicks to stay taped together and on the field and productive rushing the interior like he hasn’t seemed to have done for any long stretch of time in recent memory either. Licht, time to get Suh in the door. Time to look for anyone capable of maybe getting to a modern QB and then maybe getting them down with anywhere close to the quickness our offense is allowing our 45 year old field general to be pressured down after down. If you know that Devin White’s inability to recognize plays, and tendency to run himself out of position over and over again is a big issue, but also that you need his speed and physicality, change the defense for him sometimes. Let him run and chase. Let him play more a 4-3 WLB and trust the man you know you can trust with what you know you need to be able to trust a man with, Lavonte David, with what needs done. It’s not giving in or giving up on White. It’s putting them both in better positions to run and hit and helping White to get past thinking so much by switching him up for him not to have to all at once. White blitzing is still often our best pass rush, and our CB’s and Safety are legitimate blitzers. Call Defense with some stones. Come down on WR’s, trust your corners. Go to some 2 man or even 1 man/ rest amoeba lines. Let Vea wreck shop for the people behind him, instead of having to try to one gap carry at least one man to the QB play after play time and time again. No DT has ever been able to be very productive playing only that style for an extended period of time, especially not if your productivity is sacks, and especially not if your team needs them as bad as ours does right now. 

I do believe Bowles is capable of adapting, that he has the humility to check himself, and the one thing I saw in his eyes Thursday that keeps me somewhat in his corner is the fire and edge that was in his eyes. This team is not well coached on details, for example Fournette not getting out of bounds in that late game scenario where he clearly would have and should have. Bowles needs help. Bowles needs someone the rest of the team respects to help him oversee all the game day details and the putting those details in the ears over and over again whenever needed unless and until this football team can become a much more cerebral one, and quit being a team that beats and fails itself so many ways every week, and stops the worst failure of not realizing how and what’s failing, calling it out, getting and keeping everyone on the right page, one with schemes and gameplays that can win, and being willing to just roll with and give his best roll, show and demonstrate confidence and put it all out there to turn this around where this team is talented enough that it should be. Same goes for Licht. I’m less hopeful for Lefty, just because he’s never ran or coached anything else but what we’re seeing, but if he’s staying as OC, it should only be with someone Brady signs off on there to help him expand and switch up and get us to stop looking like wannabe best case the 90’s Atlanta Falcons offense. 

Trade deadline is November 1st. Fix this ship. Don’t let your ego’s or scared concerns for future years you’ll probably never see if this doesn’t change in a hurry be excuses to be so boring, predictable, repetitive. Bring the edge, and let Brady bring and show his to the world with what he is going through for everything you know he’s meant and could still mean. Put the talent around him, choreograph and coach them well as needed individually, not for their egos, but to win.